In this video I'll explain high availability admission control.
Now the purpose of admission control is to ensure that these fair high availability has enough spare
resources to accommodate the failure of one or more ESX hosts.
And when we have a host failure with ha all of the teams that were running on that host will fail and
they'll get booted up on other hosts within that cluster.
So as these VMT that are failed get restarted on these other hosts we're going to use that mission control
to ensure that those hosts that still remain have enough spare resources to adequately run those virtual
machines.
And also make sure that virtual machines with reservations will be able to boot.
Now if a virtual machine has a reservation that means that that VM is guaranteed a certain amount of
resources and if those resources are not available the VM won't be able to boot.
So again high availability of mission control is going to help us ensure that if an ha event occurs
every single virtual machine ends up booting up.
So here we see a cluster of ESX I hosts and on each of these ESX I hosts we're utilizing about 80 percent
of the memory or c.p.
Right.
And if one of these hosts now fails there is not enough spare capacity on the surviving hosts to adequately
run those virtual machines.
Therefore we need something like a Mission Control to kind of place some limits on these hosts and ensure
that we don't run so many Reems that we can't tolerate a failure.
Now if an ESX I host fails we have enough spare capacity to boot those virtual machines up the surviving
hosts.
So here we see the first admission control policy that we can choose from which is called Host failures
that clustered Howard's.
This is a very common choice but it's not as simple as it sounds and it's often misunderstood.
So let's take a look at how this method works.
The first step is to calculate the slot size which is based on the largest CPU and memory reservations
of any virtual machine in the cluster.
So here we see VM one with a 1 gig memory reservation and VM 2 with a 500 megahertz CPQ reservation.
And those two virtual machines combine to form our slot size.
So now we know how big the biggest VM can possibly be.
And the next step is to determine how many slots can run on each of our hosts.
So all of our hosts in this case support the same number of slots and let's assume that high availability
is configured to tolerate a single host failure.
That means we need to set aside five slots as spare capacity.
Now let's say that we have a large virtual machine.
See on the left VM one now has a 4 gig memory reservation Well that's going to contribute to a larger
slot size.
And that's going to skew the number of slots that are available per host.
Right now I can only power on two virtual machines per host.
And let's not forget we need to set aside one Holst's worth of resources for failover.
So now my cluster has the same hardware but because my slot size is larger I can run less virtual machines.
So in this slide here.
Notice we now have four usable slots.
Let's say that because we can't power on many VA EMS we decide hey let's take host ESX zero or three
and double the memory and double the C.P you so now host ESX zero or three has way more resources than
it had before.
And we still have the 4 gig memory reservation on VM one on the left and 500 to make her reservation
in the VM two on the right.
So our slot size remains unchanged but now our cluster as a whole can run a total of eight slots.
So we're hoping hey we're going to have more than four usable slots this time around.
Well no.
No such luck because we need to account for a failure of the largest host their force for slots have
to be reserved for fail over and we end up again with four usable slots just like we had before the
memory in the upgrade.
So this method can be a little tricky.
And when people can't boot up their virtual machines they tend to turn off at Mission Control which
is a bad thing.
So there's a few things you can do.
Number one you can manually configure the slot size or you could simply configure a percentage of resources
that admission control reserves no tricky slot sizes here.
It's just a simple percentage that says hey we're going to reserve 25 percent of resources for failover
while not all of these hosts you know 36 gigs out of 48 will be usable.
This is a really simple way to do this.
And if we say hey let's take that fourth host and give it more resources.
Right.
Double the memory one that we're going to actually get something of doubling the memory of that host.
We're going to get double the amount of usable memory because we're using a simple percentage.
And this also helps just reduce the odds that somebody is going to just turn off at mission control
because they can boot up a VM.
The final admission control method you can utilize is by specifying a fail over host.
This is like setting aside one host just for failover no Reems run on this host.
It's simply spare capacity.